First things first. Let's now go briefly on the
overall machine learning pipeline.
I quickly discuss what relevant AWS services we could use there and
clearly define the scope our course within that pipeline. The
machine learning pipeline can be split into seven steps in general.
You might see different pipelines with a slightly different number
of steps or names, but it doesn't matter.
The difference is usually where you draw your
separation line among different steps, if you know what I mean.
The first step in the machine learning pipeline is to
define our problem, simply, what are we planning to
achieve using machine learning power?
Do we want to predict the number of sales?
Do we want to categorize our data?
Do we want to cluster or group our data?
Based on these simple questions,
we will decide many decisions forward in our pipeline,
such as which algorithm we are going to use and so on.
The next step is sourcing or gathering our data. Usually,
especially in enterprises, we will have scattered and
heterogeneous data sources we would like to gather and capture as
rich information as possible from them,
whether it's structured data, such as database tables and CSV files, or
unstructured data, such as videos and text. In the AWS world, certain
services help with data sourcing part, such as Amazon Glue,
which is fully managed serverless service that help
us to perform ETL on our data,
which stands for extract, transform, and load,
extracting our data from the source,
transforming it to a different shape, and loading it somewhere else.
Amazon Kinesis, on the other hand,
is a service that makes it easy to collect and analyze real‑time data quickly.
Suitable data formats would be video, audio, and IoT telemetry.
You can think of AWS Glue as more suitable for structured data while Amazon
Kinesis is more suitable for unstructured and real‑time data.
Another important part of the machine learning pipeline is the data preparation
part, and this is where many things are done on the data,
such as analyzing and visualizing our data,
and we usually do this to understand what's going
on in our data, what's missing, what's irrelevant,
how the data distribution looks like, and so on.
Then processing and feature engineering our data. After we understood
our data, we will need to do some fixes and changes on the data so
that it works well for our subsequent steps in the machine learning
pipeline. We will scale our data,
remove outliers, impute missing values, label features, and so on.
Don't worry about those terminologies if you are not used to
them. We are going to discuss them at a considerable level
of detail across the course.
In AWS world, two services that we will use mainly is Amazon QuickSight.
This is simple and interactive service that helps us to create interactive
visualizations. We will learn later on how this service works.
Amazon SageMaker, which is the bread and butter of machine learning AWS.
It's a fully managed machine learning service that helps to
develop a machine learning pipeline on the cloud.
The service supports notebooks that are quite similar to
Jupyter Notebooks, the data science recognized de facto
method of doing machine learning.
Amazon SageMaker contains many Python libraries,
such as scikit‑learn, pandas, seaborn, that makes it easy to analyze,
preprocess, and visualize data. Amazon SageMaker Ground Truth is another
useful service that makes data labeling cheap and automated by using
machine learning technology and providing access to certain underlying
manual labelers, such as Amazon Turk and other Amazon prescreened
labeling companies.
After we have prepared our data and made it in an acceptable format for the
machine learning algorithm, the training step begins.
This is where we choose a particular machine learning algorithm and train it to
obtain the model that we will use for future predictions.
After we have trained our model,
we need to evaluate its quality through certain accuracy metrics.
There are many metrics to consider depending on the type
of the machine learning algorithm.
In AWS world, AWS SageMaker is used to train and evaluate
machine learning model using underlying processing power and
Python machine learning libraries.
The next step would be deploying our models for production usage and then
monitoring our model and make sure that it works as intended. Again, AWS
SageMaker will be available to help you in production.
It can provide HTTPS points to make your model easy for consumption.
Also, AWS SageMaker helps in model monitoring,
for example,
by enabling developers to set alerts to observe certain
deviations on the model quality. Model deployment and monitoring
referred to as model operationalization,
which is the operational concern of the machine learning model.
In cloud environment, you will need to consider other
operational concerns, such as performance,
security, scalability, and so on.
Finally,
it's worth nothing that even though the data sourcing and
data preparation parts are only two steps out of seven steps
in the machine learning pipeline,
they are known to take 70 to 80% of the machine learning effort,
which tells us that they are nontrivial steps.
Our focus on this course will be purely the data preparation phase, which corresponds to the exploratory data analysis as the course titled.